Clarifications for Staging envs, 1:1 projects for Mesh (#5453)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/deploy-environments.md

Currently in limited availability beta. Contact support or your account team if you're interested in beta access.
:::

Use a Staging environment to grant developers access to deployment workflows and tools while controlling access to production data. Staging environments enable you to achieve more granular control over permissions, data warehouse connections, and data isolation — within the purview of a single project in dbt Cloud.

### Git workflow

> You can do this in a couple of ways, but the most straightforward is to configure Staging with a long-living branch (for example, `staging`) similar to but separate from the primary branch (for example, `main`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can approach this in a couple of ways, but the most straightforward is configuring Staging with a long-living branch (for example, `staging`) similar to but separate from the primary branch (for example, `main`). 
```

In this scenario, the workflows would ideally move upstream from the Development environment -> Staging environment -> Production environment with developer branches feeding into the `staging` branch, then ultimately merging into `main`. In many cases, the `main` and `staging` branches will be identical after a merge and remain until the next batch of changes from the `development` branches are ready to be elevated. We recommend setting branch protection rules on `staging` similar to `main`.

> Some customers prefer to connect Development and Staging to their `main` branch, and then cutting release branches on a regular cadence (daily or weekly) which feed into Production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some customers prefer to connect Development and Staging to their `main` branch and then cut release branches on a regular cadence (daily or weekly), which feeds into Production.
```

<File name="models/sources.yml">

```yaml
sources:
  - name: sensitive_source
    database: "{{ env_var('SENSITIVE_SOURCE_DATABASE') }}"
    tables:
      - name: table_with_pii
```

</File>

There is exactly one source (`sensitive_source`), and all downstream dbt models select from it as `{{ source('sensitive_source', 'table_with_pii') }}`. The code in your project and the shape of the DAG remain consistent across environments. By setting it up in this way, rather than duplicating sources, you get some important benefits.

**Cross-project references in dbt Mesh:** Let's say you have `Project B` downstream of `Project A` with cross-project refs configured in the models. When developers work in the IDE for `Project B`, cross-project refs will resolve to the Staging environment of `Project A`, rather than production. You'll get the same results with those refs when jobs are run in the Staging environment. Only the Production environment will reference the Production data, keeping the data and access isolated without needing separate projects.

> **Faster development, enabled by deferral:** If `Project B` also has a Staging deployment, then references to unbuilt upstream models within `Project B` will resolve to that environment, using [deferral](/docs/cloud/about-cloud-develop-defer), rather than resolving to the models in Production. This saves developers time and warehouse spend, while preserving clear separation of environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Faster development enabled by deferral:** If `Project B` also has a Staging deployment, then references to unbuilt upstream models within `Project B` will resolve to that environment, using [deferral](/docs/cloud/about-cloud-develop-defer), rather than resolving to the models in Production. This saves developers time and warehouse spend, while preserving clear separation of environments.
```
